Self-hatred is no way to live. When it becomes a habit, you might as well call it your lifestyle, too.
You're lucky that your depression is under control and you can see the pattern. Recognizing the role anxiety plays in your depression is important and even necessary. Otherwise, you can feel tempted to blame yourself for your situation rather than take responsibility.
Don't be fooled by the belief that depression and anxiety are almost always linked. Just because some people with anxiety become depressed doesn't mean they're "more depressed." They're just struggling with anxiety, too.

Why criticize yourself when it's clear your anxiety is at fault?
Telling yourself you can change will help you maintain self-compassion.

If you're chronically depressed, remember that it's a perfectly normal response to something happening in your life that you can't control. But this can be a hard realization, especially if you feel like you're the only person experiencing this problem.

The other day, I was feeling really anxious about a situation at work. I felt like I couldn't complete my work. I felt like I was failing.

I realized that in this situation, I had one advantage: I'm a great employee and a great worker. I felt very strongly that I wasn't allowed to feel this way. This thought pattern can be very dangerous and doesn't serve anyone's best interests. It prevents you from doing anything to change the situation or improve your mental health.

When I realized this, I was able to use self-compassion as a tool to get to the root of my anxiety. Rather than blaming myself for failing, I decided to learn from this experience. I realized that I'm a perfectionist and I felt nervous about the situation because I expected myself to be perfect. But this is definitely not my expectation. I can't expect to be perfect at everything and just need to find ways to manage my expectations.

Once I learned to better manage my expectations, I felt able to move forward and keep working at the project at hand.

It's up to you to decide when to use self-compassion.

I used to hear from my students that I was the most self-compassionate person they knew. This was very flattering.

However, if that's true, then I'm not doing a very good job. I wasn't doing it consistently or well enough.

I realize I don't need to take it on as a burden, but I also understand that it isn't easy to accept criticism. If you feel like other people can't or won't be compassionate with you about your behavior, you may think they're calling you a bad person. Just remember that they're just trying to help you out, and that you're never a bad person.
