Hillsong Church in Australia also made headlines this week with the arrest of senior pastor Carl Lentz after he was caught giving the middle finger to a motorist in a road rage incident.

Lentz, 42, was in Melbourne for Hillsong Church’s annual conference at the Hordern Pavilion when he allegedly got into an altercation with a 39-year-old woman driving a white SUV near an intersection, according to Nine News. The woman told police that Lentz began flashing a middle finger and blowing an air horn at her, causing her to swerve the car.

In a Snapchat video from the incident, Lentz is seen speaking with a police officer at the scene. The officer can be seen holding a mirror in his hands.

Lentz said the woman’s actions caused him to lose control and give the woman the finger.

“My reaction was I just lost control, and I was like, ‘What the hell is going on,'” Lentz told Nine News.

The woman was arrested and charged with a charge of negligent driving.

Hillsong Church is the largest Christian community in Australia with weekly attendance ranging from 20,000 to 90,000, according to Hillsong’s website. Its worship services are broadcast to over 240 of the country’s biggest cities.

The leader of the church is an outspoken pro-Israel advocate and a supporter of the state of Israel, even after Israel’s deadly raid on the aid flotilla.

But Lentz’s swift arrest and the graphic video of the encounter sparked outrage across the web and calls to boycott the church. A Change.org petition calling for his release has collected nearly 100,000 signatures.

“All this because he flipped off a random woman,” wrote one man on the petition, “Stop being angry and realize that this is not an isolated case.”

Jewish Voice for Peace also started an online petition calling for a boycott of Hillsong services. The organization also demanded that Lentz be removed from his position at the church.

“This obscene public display of hate in a mixed-religious area is a disturbing display of homophobia and racism, and anyone engaging with this sort of behavior should be held accountable,” said the petition, which has garnered more than 1,400 signatures.

Lentz has been at the forefront of the war in the Middle East. He said in a 2011 sermon that Jesus’ trip to the Middle East was a “sign of his mission” to eliminate homosexuality.

In 2011, he encouraged a conference in Sydney to fight global warming by “taking in 100 gays, 100 transvestites and 100 prostitutes from the streets of Sydney.” He also preached against Jews for the first time in an unrelated sermon a year later, according to J Street.

In a statement, Hillsong said the incident was being investigated. The church released the following statement, obtained by KTSF, on Sunday afternoon:

“We are aware of an incident involving Carl Lentz where he was involved in an altercation with a member of the public. The full circumstances are not yet clear. Hillsong takes these matters extremely seriously and the church is looking into them. We wish to make it clear that Mr Lentz did not leave the scene of the incident and has co-operated fully with police and provided a statement.”

“The incident has been referred to Victoria Police, and Hillsong is co-operating fully with their inquiries,” the statement continued.

More to come.
